SubmissionNumber#=%=#71
FinalPaperTitle#=%=#Cross-lingual Name Tagging and Linking for 282 Languages
ShortPaperTitle#=%=#Cross-lingual Name Tagging and Linking for 282 Languages
NumberOfPages#=%=#13
CopyrightSigned#=%=#Xiaoman Pan
JobTitle#==#
Organization#==#Computer Science Department, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
110 8th Street
Troy, NY 12180-3590
Abstract#==#The ambitious goal of this work is to develop a cross-lingual name tagging and
linking framework for 282 languages that exist in Wikipedia. Given a document
in any of these languages, our framework is able to identify name mentions,
assign a coarse-grained or fine-grained type to each mention, and link it to an
English Knowledge Base (KB) if it is linkable. We achieve this goal by
performing a series of new KB mining methods: generating ``silver-standard''
annotations by transferring annotations from English to other languages through
cross-lingual links and KB properties, refining annotations through
self-training and topic selection, deriving language-specific morphology
features from anchor links, and mining word translation pairs from
cross-lingual links. Both name tagging and linking results for 282 languages
are promising on Wikipedia data and on-Wikipedia data.
Author{1}{Firstname}#=%=#Xiaoman
Author{1}{Lastname}#=%=#Pan
Author{1}{Email}#=%=#panx2@rpi.edu
Author{1}{Affiliation}#=%=#Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Author{2}{Firstname}#=%=#Boliang
Author{2}{Lastname}#=%=#Zhang
Author{2}{Email}#=%=#boliangzhang85@gmail.com
Author{2}{Affiliation}#=%=#Rensselaer Polytechnic Institue
Author{3}{Firstname}#=%=#Jonathan
Author{3}{Lastname}#=%=#May
Author{3}{Email}#=%=#jonmay@gmail.com
Author{3}{Affiliation}#=%=#USC Information Sciences Institute
Author{4}{Firstname}#=%=#Joel
Author{4}{Lastname}#=%=#Nothman
Author{4}{Email}#=%=#joel.nothman@gmail.com
Author{4}{Affiliation}#=%=#University of Melbourne
Author{5}{Firstname}#=%=#Kevin
Author{5}{Lastname}#=%=#Knight
Author{5}{Email}#=%=#knight@isi.edu
Author{5}{Affiliation}#=%=#USC/ISI
Author{6}{Firstname}#=%=#Heng
Author{6}{Lastname}#=%=#Ji
Author{6}{Email}#=%=#jih@rpi.edu
Author{6}{Affiliation}#=%=#Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

==========